Title: 4,4′-(1-Methylethylidene)bis[2,6-dibromophenol] (TBBPA) Risk Evaluation Under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA); Notice of Availability and Request for Comment
Agency: Environmental Protection Agency
Date: 2026-06-16
Document Number: 2026-12012
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA or Agency) is announcing the availability of and seeking public comment on the draft risk evaluation under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) for 4,4'- (1-Methylethylidene)bis[2,6-dibromophenol] (TBBPA). The purpose of risk evaluations under TSCA are to determine whether a chemical substance presents an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment under the conditions of use (COUs), including unreasonable risk to potentially exposed or susceptible subpopulations identified as relevant to the risk evaluation by EPA, and without consideration of costs or non-risk factors. EPA is seeking comment on the draft risk evaluation for TBBPA.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Environmental Protection Agency [EPA-HQ-OPPT-2018-0462; FRL-13443-01-OCSPP] AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA or Agency) is announcing the availability of and seeking public comment on the draft risk evaluation under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) for 4,4&prime;-(1-Methylethylidene)bis[2,6-dibromophenol] (TBBPA). The purpose of risk evaluations under TSCA are to determine whether a chemical substance presents an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment under the conditions of use (COUs), including unreasonable risk to potentially exposed or susceptible ( printed page 36139) subpopulations identified as relevant to the risk evaluation by EPA, and without consideration of costs or non-risk factors. EPA is seeking comment on the draft risk evaluation for TBBPA. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 17, 2026. ADDRESSES: To submit comments on the TBBPA draft risk evaluation, submit your comments, identified by docket identification (ID) number EPA-HQ-OPPT-2018-0462, online at https://www.regulations.gov . Follow the online instructions for submitting comments. Do not electronically submit any information you consider to be Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Additional information on commenting or visiting the docket, along with more information about dockets generally, is available at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For technical information on TBBPA: John Allran, Existing Chemical Risk Assessment Division (7404M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460-0001; telephone number: (202) 564-7656; email address: TBBPA.TSCA@epa.gov . For general information: The TSCA Assistance Information Service Hotline, Goodwill Vision Enterprises, 422 South Clinton Ave., Rochester, NY 14620; telephone number: (800) 471-7127 or (202) 554-1404; email address: TSCA-Hotline@epa.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Executive Summary A. Does this action apply to me? This action is directed to the public in general and may be of particular interest to those involved in the manufacture (defined under TSCA section 3(9) to include import), processing, distribution, use, and disposal of TBBPA, related industry trade organizations, non-governmental organizations with an interest in human and environmental health, State and local governments, Tribal Nations, and/or those interested in the assessment of risks involving chemical substances and mixtures regulated under TSCA. As such, the Agency has not attempted to describe all the specific entities that this action might apply to. If you need help determining applicability, consult the relevant technical contact listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . B. What is the Agency's authority for taking this action? The Agency is conducting this risk evaluation under TSCA section 6, ( 15 U.S.C. 2605 ) which requires that EPA conduct risk evaluations on chemical substances and identifies the minimum components EPA must include in the risk evaluations. Each risk evaluation must be conducted consistent with the best available science, be based on the weight of the scientific evidence, and consider reasonably available information, and not consider costs or non-risk factors ( 15 U.S.C. 2625(h) , (i), and (k)). See also the implementing procedural regulations at 40 CFR part 702 . C. What action is the Agency taking? EPA is announcing the availability of and seeking public comment on the draft risk evaluation under TSCA for TBBPA. EPA used the best available science to prepare the draft risk evaluation and preliminarily determined, based on the weight of scientific evidence, that TBBPA poses unreasonable risk to human health and the environment driven primarily by certain COUs analyzed in the draft risk evaluation. D. What should I consider as I submit my comments to EPA? 1. Submitting CBI. Do not submit CBI to EPA through https://www.regulations.gov or email. If you wish to include CBI in your comment, please follow the applicable instructions at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets/&#8203;commenting-epa-dockets#rules and clearly mark the information that you claim to be CBI. Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR parts 2 and 703 , as applicable. 2. Tips for preparing comments. When preparing and submitting your comments, see the commenting tips at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets/&#8203;commenting-epa-dockets . II. Background A. What is TBBPA? TBBPA is a crystalline solid used as an additive and reactive flame retardant. As an additive flame retardant, TBBPA is incorporated into polymers and used in electronic enclosures and electronic consumer products with an outer plastic casing. As a reactive flame retardant, TBBPA is primarily used in epoxy resin printed circuit boards. TBBPA is used in fabric, textile, leather products, and construction materials. Workers may be exposed to TBBPA through inhalation of dust or dermal contact during the manufacturing, processing, use, or disposal of TBBPA. Consumers may be exposed to TBBPA through dermal or oral exposure to products, as well as inhalation of dust. TBBPA is primarily released to the environment through land disposal. Environmental TBBPA release can also occur through 