Title: Certain New Chemicals; Receipt and Status Information for February and March 2026
Agency: Environmental Protection Agency
Date: 2026-06-15
Document Number: 2026-11943
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
This document announces the Agency's receipt of new chemical submissions under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), including information about the receipt of a Premanufacture Notice (PMN), Significant New Use Notice (SNUN), Microbial Commercial Activity Notice (MCAN), and an amendment to a previously submitted notice; test information; a biotechnology exemption application; an application for a test marketing exemption (TME); and a notice of commencement of manufacture (defined by statute to include import) (NOC) for a new chemical substance. This document also provides a periodic status report on the new chemical substances that are currently under EPA review or have recently concluded review. EPA is hereby providing notice of receipt of this information, as required by TSCA, and an opportunity to comment. This document covers new chemical submissions that have passed an initial screening and, for PMNs, SNUNs and MCANs, were determined to be complete during the period from 03/1/2026 to 03/ 31/2026 regardless of initial submission date.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Environmental Protection Agency [EPA-HQ-OPPT-2026-1387; FRL-13202-03-OCSPP] AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of receipt and request for comment. SUMMARY: This document announces the Agency's receipt of new chemical submissions under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), including information about the receipt of a Premanufacture Notice (PMN), Significant New Use Notice (SNUN), Microbial Commercial Activity Notice (MCAN), and an amendment to a previously submitted notice; test information; a biotechnology exemption application; an application for a test marketing exemption (TME); and a notice of commencement of manufacture (defined by statute to include import) (NOC) for a new chemical substance. This document also provides a periodic status report on the new chemical substances that are currently under EPA review or have recently concluded review. EPA is hereby providing notice of receipt of this information, as required by TSCA, and an opportunity to comment. This document covers new chemical submissions that have passed an initial screening and, for PMNs, SNUNs and MCANs, were determined to be complete during the period from 03/1/2026 to 03/31/2026 regardless of initial submission date. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 15, 2026. ADDRESSES: Submit your comments, identified by docket identification (ID) number EPA-HQ-OPPT-2026-1387 ( printed page 35977) and the specific case number provided in this document for the chemical substance related to your comment, online at https://www.regulations.gov . Follow the online instructions for submitting comments. Do not submit electronically any information you consider to be Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Additional instructions on commenting on and visiting the docket, along with more information about dockets generally, are available at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: &emsp; For technical information: Jim Rahai, Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention (OCSPP-OMCO-RISD), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460-0001; telephone number: (202) 564-8593; email address: rahai.jim@epa.gov . For general information: The TSCA-Hotline, ABVI-Goodwill, 422 South Clinton Ave., Rochester, NY 14620; telephone number: (202) 554-1404; email address: TSCA-Hotline@epa.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Executive Summary A. Does this action apply to me? This action provides information that is directed to the public in general. B. What is the Agency's authority for taking this action? EPA is publishing this document in the Federal Register as required by sections 5 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq., and corresponding EPA regulations. Under TSCA, a chemical substance may be either an &ldquo;existing&rdquo; chemical substance or a &ldquo;new&rdquo; chemical substance, see https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;chemicals-under-tsca . Any chemical substance that is not on EPA's TSCA Inventory of Chemical Substances (TSCA Inventory) is classified as a &ldquo;new chemical substance,&rdquo; while a chemical substance that is listed on the TSCA Inventory is classified as an &ldquo;existing chemical substance.&rdquo; See TSCA section 3(2) and (11). For more information about the TSCA Inventory, see https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;-inventory . Any person who intends to manufacture (including import) a new chemical substance for a non-exempt commercial purpose, or to manufacture or process a chemical substance in a non-exempt manner for a use that EPA has determined is a significant new use, is required by TSCA section 5 to provide EPA with a PMN, MCAN, or SNUN, as appropriate, before initiating the activity. EPA will review the notice, make a risk determination on the new chemical substance or significant new use, and take appropriate action as described in TSCA section 5(a)(3). TSCA section 5(h)(1) authorizes EPA to allow persons, upon application and under appropriate restrictions, to manufacture a new chemical substance, or manufacture or process a chemical substance subject to a significant new use rule (SNUR) issued under TSCA section 5(a)(2), for &ldquo;test marketing&rdquo; purposes, upon a showing that the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal of the chemical substances will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. This is referred to as a test marketing exemption, or TME. Premanufacture notification procedures for reviewing certain new microbial products of biotechnology are established in 40 CFR part 725 . These pertain to MCANs and biotechnology exemptions, including TSCA experimental release applications (TERAs), TMEs for microorganisms, and Tier I and Tier II exemptions. C. What action is the Agency taking? This document provides notice of receipt and status reports for the covered period and certain submissions under TSCA section 5 and provides an opportunity to comment on this information. The Agency provides information about the receipt of PMNs, SNUNs, MCANs, and amendments to a previously submitted notice; test information; biotechnology exemption applications under 40 CFR part 725 ; TME applications; NOCs for new chemical substances; and a periodic status report on chemical substances that are currently under EPA review or have recently concluded review. D. What should I consider