Title: Receipt of Pesticide Petitions Filed for Residues of Pesticide Chemicals in or on Various Commodities-February 2026
Agency: Environmental Protection Agency
Date: 2026-06-15
Document Number: 2026-11942
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
This document announces the Agency's receipt of and solicits public comment on initial filings of pesticide petitions requesting the establishment or modification of regulations for residues of pesticide chemicals in or on various commodities. The Agency is providing this notice in accordance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). EPA uses the month and year in the title to identify when the Agency compiled the petitions identified in this notice of filing. Unit II. of this document identifies certain petitions received in 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026 that are currently being evaluated by EPA, along with information about each petition, including who submitted the petition and the requested action.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Parts 174 and 180 [EPA-HQ-OPP-2026-0332; FRL-13201-02-OCSPP] AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of filing of petitions and request for comment. SUMMARY: This document announces the Agency's receipt of and solicits public comment on initial filings of pesticide petitions requesting the establishment or modification of regulations for residues of pesticide chemicals in or on various commodities. The Agency is providing this notice in accordance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). EPA uses the month and year in the title to identify when the Agency compiled the petitions identified in this notice of filing. Unit II. of this document identifies certain petitions received in 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026 that are currently being evaluated by EPA, along with information about each petition, including who submitted the petition and the requested action. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 15, 2026. ADDRESSES: Submit your comments, identified by docket identification (ID) number and the pesticide petition (PP) of interest identified in Unit II. of this document, online at https://www.regulations.gov . Follow the online instructions for submitting comments. Do not submit electronically any information you consider to be Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Additional instructions on commenting on and visiting the docket, along with more information about dockets generally, is available at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Each application summary in Unit II. specifies a contact division. The appropriate division contacts are identified as follows: RD (Registration Division) (Mail Code 7505T); Charles Smith; main telephone number: (202) 566-1030; email address: RDFRNotices@epa.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Executive Summary A. Does this action apply to me? This action provides information that is directed to the public in general. B. What is the Agency's authority for taking this action? EPA regulations for residues of pesticide chemicals in or on various food commodities are established under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), 21 U.S.C. 346a . FFDCA section 408(d)(3), 21 U.S.C. 346a(d)(3) , requires EPA to publish a notice of receipt of these petitions in the Federal Register and provide an opportunity for public comment on the requests. C. What action is the Agency taking? As specified in FFDCA section 408(d)(3), 21 U.S.C. 346a(d)(3) , EPA is publishing notice of the receipt of pesticide petitions filed under FFDCA section 408 that request the establishment or modification of regulations for residues of pesticide chemicals in or on various food commodities. The Agency is taking public comments on the requests before responding to the petitioner. Pursuant to 40 CFR 180.7(f) , a summary of the petition identified in this document, prepared by the petitioner, is included in a docket. EPA has determined that the pesticide petitions described in this document contain data or information prescribed in FFDCA section 408(d)(2), 21 U.S.C. 346a(d)(2) , and 40 CFR 180.7(b) ; however, EPA has not fully evaluated the sufficiency of the submitted data at this time or whether the data supports granting the pesticide petitions. After considering the public comments, EPA intends to evaluate whether and what action may be warranted. Additional data may be needed before EPA can make a final determination on these pesticide petitions. ( printed page 35937) Based upon review of the data supporting these petitions and in accordance with its authority under FFDCA section 408(d)(4)(A)(i), EPA may establish a final tolerance or tolerance exemption that &ldquo;may vary from that sought by the petitioner.&rdquo; For example, EPA may determine that it is appropriate to vary the commodity name for consistency with EPA's Food and Feed Commodity Vocabulary, which is located here https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;pesticide-tolerances/&#8203;food-and-feed-commodity-vocabulary , or vary the tolerance level based on available data, harmonization interests, or the trailing zeros policy. In addition, when evaluating a petition's requests for a tolerance or exemption, EPA will consider how use of the pesticide on a crop for which a tolerance is requested may result in residues in or on commodities related to that requested commodity ( e.g., whether use on sugar beets for which a tolerance was requested on sugar beet root also requires a tolerance on sugar beet tops or whether use on a cereal grain for which a grain tolerance was requested also requires a tolerance on related animal feed commodities derived from that cereal grain). Public commenters should consider the possibility of such revisions in preparing comments on these petitions. D. What should I consider as I prepare my comments for EPA? 1. Submitting CBI. Do not submit CBI to EPA through https://www.regulations.gov or email. If you wish to include CBI in your comment, please follow the applicable instructions at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets/&#8203;commenting-epa-dockets#rules and clearly mark the information that you claim to be CBI. In addition to one complete version of the comment that includes CBI, a copy of the comment without CBI must be submitted for inclusion in the public docket. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accord