Title: Sodium Nitrate in Pesticide Formulations; Exemption From the Requirement of a Tolerance
Agency: Environmental Protection Agency
Date: 2026-06-15
Document Number: 2026-11941
Topics: Administrative practice and procedure, Agricultural commodities, Environmental protection, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
This regulation establishes an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for residues of sodium nitrate (CAS Reg. No. 7631-99-4) when used as an inert ingredient (dilutant/oxidizer) in pesticide formulations applied to raw agricultural commodities post-harvest under 40 CFR 180.910, only when used in a fumigant canister that is remotely detonated and released inside a sealed warehouse. AgroFresh Inc. submitted a petition to EPA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) requesting establishment of an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance. This regulation eliminates the need to establish a maximum permissible level for residues of sodium nitrate, when used in accordance with the terms of this exemption. This action also corrects a typographical error to the CAS Reg. No. of d-Alpha tocopherol. A digit was inadvertently omitted from the previously listed CAS Reg. No., resulting in a number that is not valid and does not represent any chemical.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Part 180 [EPA-HQ-OPP-2023-0296; FRL-13292-01-OCSPP] AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This regulation establishes an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for residues of sodium nitrate (CAS Reg. No. 7631-99-4) when used as an inert ingredient (dilutant/oxidizer) in pesticide formulations applied to raw agricultural commodities post-harvest under 40 CFR 180.910 , only when used in a fumigant canister that is remotely ( printed page 35893) detonated and released inside a sealed warehouse. AgroFresh Inc. submitted a petition to EPA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) requesting establishment of an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance. This regulation eliminates the need to establish a maximum permissible level for residues of sodium nitrate, when used in accordance with the terms of this exemption. This action also corrects a typographical error to the CAS Reg. No. of d-Alpha tocopherol. A digit was inadvertently omitted from the previously listed CAS Reg. No., resulting in a number that is not valid and does not represent any chemical. DATES: This regulation is effective June 15, 2026. Objections and requests for hearings must be received on or before August 14, 2026 and must be filed in accordance with the instructions provided in 40 CFR part 178 (see also Unit I.C. of this document). ADDRESSES: The docket for this action, identified by docket identification (ID) number EPA-HQ-OPP-2023-0296, is available online at https://www.regulations.gov . Additional information about dockets generally, along with instructions for visiting the docket in-person, is available at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles Smith, Registration Division (7505T), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460-0001; main telephone number: (202) 566-1030; email address: RDFRNotices@epa.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Executive Summary A. Does this action apply to me? You may be potentially affected by this action if you are an agricultural producer, food manufacturer, or pesticide manufacturer. The following list of North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) codes is not intended to be exhaustive, but rather provides a guide to help readers determine whether this document applies to them. Potentially affected entities may include: Crop production (NAICS code 111). Animal production (NAICS code 112). Food manufacturing (NAICS code 311). Pesticide manufacturing (NAICS code 32532). If you have any questions regarding the applicability of this proposed action to a particular entity, consult the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . B. What is EPA's authority for taking this action? EPA is issuing this rulemaking under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), 21 U.S.C. 346a . FFDCA section 408(c)(2)(A)(i) allows EPA to establish an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance (the legal limit for a pesticide chemical residue in or on a food) only if EPA determines that the exemption is &ldquo;safe.&rdquo; FFDCA section 408(c)(2)(A)(ii) defines &ldquo;safe&rdquo; to mean that &ldquo;there is a reasonable certainty that no harm will result from aggregate exposure to the pesticide chemical residue, including all anticipated dietary exposures and all other exposures for which there is reliable information.&rdquo; This includes exposure through drinking water and in residential settings but does not include occupational exposure. Pursuant to FFDCA section 408(c)(2)(B), in establishing or maintaining in effect an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance, EPA must take into account the factors set forth in FFDCA section 408(b)(2)(C), which requires EPA to give special consideration to exposure of infants and children to the pesticide chemical residue in establishing a tolerance and to &ldquo;ensure that there is a reasonable certainty that no harm will result to infants and children from aggregate exposure to the pesticide chemical residue. . . .&rdquo; Additionally, FFDCA section 408(b)(2)(D) requires that the Agency consider, among other things, &ldquo;available information concerning the cumulative effects of a particular pesticide's residues&rdquo; and &ldquo;other substances that have a common mechanism of toxicity.&rdquo; C. How can I file an objection or hearing request? Under FFDCA section 408(g), 21 U.S.C. 346a(g) , any person may file an objection to any aspect of this regulation and may also request a hearing on those objections. If you fail to file an objection to the final rule within the time period specified in the final rule, you will have waived the right to raise any issues resolved in the final rule. You must file your objection or request a hearing on this regulation in accordance with the instructions provided in 40 CFR part 178 . To ensure proper receipt by EPA, you must identify the docket ID number EPA-HQ-OPP-2023-0296 in the subject line on the first page of your submission. All objections and requests for a hearing must be in writing and must be received by the Hearing Clerk on or before August 14, 2026. EPA's Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ), in which the Hearing Clerk is housed, urges parties to file and serve documents by electronic means only, notwithstanding any other particular requirements set forth in other proced