Title: Partial Withdrawals of Findings of Failure To Submit State Implementation Plan (SIP) Revisions To Amend Provisions Applying to Excess Emissions During Periods of Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction
Agency: Environmental Protection Agency
Date: 2026-06-12
Document Number: 2026-11884
Topics: Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Environmental protection, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is partially withdrawing two final actions finding that 13 States and/or local air pollution control agencies failed to submit State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions to address the Agency's 2015 findings of substantial inadequacy and "SIP call" for provisions applying to excess emissions during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM). The partial withdrawal affects six air pollution control agencies. Withdrawing relevant parts of the findings for failure to submit is consistent with the decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit Court (D.C. Circuit) partially vacating the findings of substantial inadequacy and SIP call. This final action renders no longer applicable certain CAA deadlines for the EPA to impose sanctions if a State does not submit a complete SIP revision addressing the outstanding requirements, and to promulgate a Federal Implementation Plan (FIP).

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Part 52 [EPA-HQ-OAR-2021-0863; EPA-R03-OAR-2023-0179; FRL-12161-04-OAR] RIN 2060-AW38 AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final action. SUMMARY: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is partially withdrawing two final actions finding that 13 States and/or local air pollution control agencies failed to submit State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions to address the Agency's 2015 findings of substantial inadequacy and &ldquo;SIP call&rdquo; for provisions applying to excess emissions during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM). The partial withdrawal affects six air pollution control agencies. Withdrawing relevant parts of the findings for failure to submit is consistent with the decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit Court (D.C. Circuit) partially vacating the findings of substantial inadequacy and SIP call. This final action renders no longer applicable certain CAA deadlines for the EPA to impose sanctions if a State does not submit a complete SIP revision addressing the outstanding requirements, and to promulgate a Federal Implementation Plan (FIP). DATES: This final action is effective on July 13, 2026. ADDRESSES: The EPA has established two dockets for this action under Docket ID Nos. EPA-HQ-OAR-2021-0863 and EPA-R03-OAR-2023-0179. All documents in the dockets are listed on the http://www.regulations.gov website. Although listed in the index, some information is not publicly available, e.g., Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information the disclosure of which is restricted by statute. Certain other material, such as copyrighted material, is not placed on the internet and will be publicly available only in hard copy form. Publicly available docket materials are available electronically through http://www.regulations.gov . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For information about this final action, contact Carrie Wheeler, Office of State Air Partnerships, Air Quality Planning Division (C504-05), Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711; telephone number: (919) 541-9771; email address: wheeler.carrie@epa.gov . Preamble acronyms and abbreviations. Throughout this preamble, the use of &ldquo;we,&rdquo; &ldquo;us,&rdquo; or &ldquo;our&rdquo; is intended to refer to the EPA. We use multiple acronyms and terms in this preamble. While this list may not be exhaustive, to ease the reading of this preamble and for reference purposes, the EPA defines the following terms and acronyms here: CAA&emsp;Clean Air Act CBI&emsp;Confidential Business Information D.C.&emsp;District of Columbia Circuit Court EPA&emsp;Environmental Protection Agency FIP&emsp;Federal Implementation Plan SIP&emsp;State Implementation Plan SSM&emsp;startup, shutdown, malfunction SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Organization of this document. The information in this preamble is organized as follows: I. Background and Overview of the Final Action II. Response to Comments III. Statutory and Executive Order Reviews A. Executive Order 12866 : Regulatory Planning and Executive Order 13563 : Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review B. Executive Order 14192 : Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation C. Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) D. Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) E. Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (UMRA) F. Executive Order 13132 : Federalism G. Executive Order 13175 : Consultation and Coordination With Indian Tribal Governments H. Executive Order 13045 : Protection of Children From Environmental Health and Safety Risks I. Executive Order 13211 : Actions That Significantly Affect Energy Supply, Distribution, or Use J. National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act (NTTAA) K. Congressional Review Act (CRA) L. Judicial Review I. Background and Overview of the Final Action On January 12, 2022, the EPA took final action (the &ldquo;January 2022 Findings of Failure to Submit&rdquo;)&thinsp; [ 1 ] to find that 12 air agencies failed to submit SIP revisions that were due by November 22, 2016, to address a now partially vacated 2015 SSM SIP Call. [ 2 ] On April 17, 2023, EPA Region 3 took final action (the &ldquo;April 2023 Finding of Failure to Submit&rdquo;) to find that the State of West Virginia failed to submit a SIP revision in response to the now partially vacated 2015 SSM SIP Call. [ 3 ] On November 26, 2024, the EPA issued a direct final action&thinsp; [ 4 ] and parallel proposal (the &ldquo;November 2024 Action&rdquo;) to partially withdraw the January 2022 Findings of Failure to Submit and the April 2023 Finding of Failure to Submit. The EPA is now taking final action to partially withdraw certain prior Agency actions that found that 13 States and/or local air pollution control agencies (&ldquo;air agencies&rdquo;) failed to timely submit SIP revisions required by the CAA. In total, the 13 air agencies that were included in the findings of failure to submit can be found in Table 1. For those air agencies subject to the prior findings of failure to submit for which the EPA has fully approved their submitted SIP revision, the obligation under the findings of failure to submit has been fulfilled, and there is no need for the Agency or those air agencies to take further action. The air agencies that have not submitted a SIP revision in response to the prior findings of failure to submit, or for which the EPA has not taken final action on their