Title: Pesticide Product Registration; Receipt of Applications for New Uses (January 2026)
Agency: Environmental Protection Agency
Date: 2026-06-12
Document Number: 2026-11848
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
This document announces the Agency's receipt of and solicits comments on applications to register new pesticide products containing currently registered active ingredients that would entail a change in use pattern. The Agency is providing this notice in accordance with the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). EPA uses the month and year in the title to identify when the Agency compiled the applications identified in this notice of receipt. Unit II. of this document identifies certain applications received in 2023, 2024, and 2025 that are currently being evaluated by EPA, along with information about each application, including when it was received, who submitted the application, and the purpose of the application.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Environmental Protection Agency [EPA-HQ-OPP-2025-0026; FRL-13199-01-OCSPP] AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of receipt and request for comment. SUMMARY: This document announces the Agency's receipt of and solicits comments on applications to register new pesticide products containing currently registered active ingredients that would entail a change in use pattern. The Agency is providing this notice in accordance with the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). EPA uses the month and year in the title to identify when the Agency compiled the applications identified in this notice of receipt. Unit II. of this document identifies certain applications received in 2023, 2024, and 2025 that are currently being evaluated by EPA, along with information about each application, including when it was received, who submitted the application, and the purpose of the application. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 13, 2026. ADDRESSES: Submit your comments, identified by the docket identification (ID) number and the EPA File Symbol or the EPA Registration Number of interest as shown in Unit II. of this document, online at https://www.regulations.gov . Follow the online instructions for submitting comments. Do not submit electronically any information you consider to be Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Additional instructions on commenting on and visiting the docket, along with more information about dockets generally, are available at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203; . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Each application summary in Unit II. specifies a contact division. The appropriate division contacts are identified as follows: RD (Registration Division) (Mail Code 7505T); Charles Smith; main telephone number: (202) 566-1030; email address: RDFRNotices@epa.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Executive Summary A. Does this action apply to me? This action provides information that is directed to the public in general. B. What is the Agency's authority for taking this action? EPA is taking this action pursuant to section 3(c)(4) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), 7 U.S.C. 136a(c)(4) , and 40 CFR 152.102 . C. What action is the Agency taking? EPA is hereby providing notice of receipt and opportunity to comment on applications to register new pesticide products containing currently registered active ingredients that would entail a change in use pattern. EPA provides a notice of receipt monthly, using the month and year in the title to help distinguish one document from the other. This document identifies the applications that were received since the last notice that was issued and are currently being evaluated by EPA in accordance with the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). Notice of receipt of these applications does not imply a decision by the Agency on these applications. For actions being evaluated under EPA's public participation process for registration actions, there will be an additional opportunity for public comment on the proposed decisions. Please see EPA's public participation website for additional information on this process ( https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;registration/&#8203;public-participation-process-registration-actions ). D. What should I consider as I prepare my comments for EPA? 1. Submitting CBI. Do not submit CBI to EPA through https://www.regulations.gov or email. If you wish to include CBI in your comment, please follow the applicable instructions at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets/&#8203;commenting-epa-dockets#rules and clearly mark the information that you claim to be CBI. In addition to one complete version of the comment that includes CBI, a copy of the comment without CBI must be submitted for inclusion in the public docket. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2 . 2. Tips for preparing your comments. When preparing and submitting your comments, see the commenting tips at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets/&#8203;commenting-epa-dockets . II. Applications To Register New Uses This unit provides the following information about each application received: The EPA File Symbol or Registration number(s); EPA docket ID number for the application; name and address of the applicant; name of the active ingredient, product type and proposed uses; and the division to contact for that application. Additional information about the application may also be available in the docket for the application as identified in this unit. EPA Registration Number: 352-931. Docket ID number: EPA-HQ-OPP-2026-0397. Applicant: Corteva Agriscience, LLC, 930 Zionsville Road, Indianapolis, IN, 46268. Active ingredient: Fluazaindolizine. Product type: Nematicide. Proposed use: Turf. Date of receipt: August 25, 2025. Contact: RD. EPA Registration Number: 59639-233, 59639-230. Docket ID number: EPA-HQ-OPP-2024-0140. Applicant: Valent U.S.A. LLC, 4600 Norris Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94538. Active ingredient: Inpyrfluxam. Product type: Fungicide. Proposed use: Cucurbit Vegetables Group 9. Date of receipt: August 31, 2023. Contact: RD. EPA Registration Number: 59639-233, 59639-230. Docket ID number: EPA-HQ-OPP-2024-0140. Applicant: Valent U.S.A. LLC, 4600 Norris Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583. Active ingredient: Inpyrfluxam. Product type: Fungicide. Proposed use: B