Title: Ozone Reclassification State Implementation Plan Rule
Agency: Environmental Protection Agency
Date: 2026-06-12
Document Number: 2026-11843
Topics: Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Environmental protection, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Nitrogen oxides, Ozone, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Volatile organic compounds
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is reconsidering certain aspects of the January 2025 final rule entitled State Implementation Plan Submittal Deadlines and Implementation Requirements for Reclassified Nonattainment Areas Under the Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards ("January 2025 final rule"). Among other things, the January 2025 final rule codified a policy that certain State Implementation Plan (SIP) requirements for a prior classification remain due upon an area's reclassification to a higher classification. In this proposed action, the EPA is proposing a new interpretation that, upon reclassification, an area is subject only to those requirements in Clean Air Act (CAA) section 182 that are specific to that area's current classification. If finalized, this proposed rule would apply nationwide to all past and future reclassifications associated with the 2008, 2015, and any future ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). The EPA is not reconsidering or reopening any other aspect of the January 2025 final rule in this rulemaking and is not addressing the scope of applicable requirements for NAAQS other than the ozone NAAQS.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Part 51 [EPA-HQ-OAR-2025-0201; FRL-11817.1-01-OAR] RIN 2060-AW81 AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is reconsidering certain aspects of the January 2025 final rule entitled State Implementation Plan Submittal Deadlines and Implementation Requirements for Reclassified Nonattainment Areas Under the Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (&ldquo;January 2025 final rule&rdquo;). Among other things, the January 2025 final rule codified a policy that certain State Implementation Plan (SIP) requirements for a prior classification remain due upon an area's reclassification to a higher classification. In this proposed action, the EPA is proposing a new interpretation that, upon reclassification, an area is subject only to those requirements in Clean Air Act (CAA) section 182 that are specific to that area's current classification. If finalized, this proposed rule would apply nationwide to all past and future reclassifications associated with the 2008, 2015, and any future ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). The EPA is not reconsidering or reopening any other aspect of the January 2025 final rule in this rulemaking and is not addressing the scope of applicable requirements for NAAQS other than the ozone NAAQS. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 13, 2026. Public hearing: If anyone contacts us requesting a public hearing on or before June 17, 2026, the EPA will hold a virtual public hearing on June 29, 2026. See SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION for information on requesting and registering for a public hearing. ADDRESSES: You may send comments, identified by Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OAR-2025-0201, by any of the following methods: Federal eRulemaking Portal: https://www.regulations.gov (our preferred method). Follow the online instructions for submitting comments. You can also find a plain language summary of the rule on the Federal eRulemaking Portal. Email: a-and-r-docket@epa.gov . Include Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OAR-2025-0201 in the subject line of the message. Fax: (202) 566-9744. Mail: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA Docket Center, Office of Air and Radiation Docket, Mail Code 28221T, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460. Hand Delivery or Courier (by scheduled appointment only): EPA Docket Center, WJC West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20004. The Docket Center's hours of operations are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (except Federal holidays). Instructions: All submissions received must include the Docket ID No. for this rulemaking. Comments received may be posted without change to https://www.regulations.gov , including any personal information provided. For detailed instructions on sending comments and additional information on the rulemaking process, see the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section of this document. For information on EPA Docket Center services, please visit us online at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;dockets . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For information about this proposed rule, contact Stephen Senter, U.S. EPA, Office of State Air Partnerships, Air Quality Planning Division, C531-H Research Triangle Park, NC 27709; telephone number: (919) 541-3042; email address: senter.stephen@epa.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Participation in virtual public hearing. To request a virtual public hearing, contact the public hearing team at (919) 541-9782 or by email at OSAPpublichearing@epa.gov . If requested, the hearing will be held via virtual platform on June 29, 2026. The hearing will convene at 10 a.m. Eastern Time (ET) and will conclude at 4 p.m. ET; additional hearing hours may be added at the discretion of the EPA. The EPA may close a session 15 minutes after the last pre-registered speaker has testified if there are no additional speakers. The EPA will announce further details at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;ground-level-ozone-pollution/&#8203;ozone-implementation-regulatory-actions . If a public hearing is requested, the EPA will begin pre-registering speakers for the hearing no later than one business day after a request has been received. To register to speak at the virtual hearing, please use the online registration form available at https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;ground-level-ozone-pollution/&#8203;ozone-implementation-regulatory-actions or contact the public hearing team at (919) 541-9782 or by email at OSAPpublichearing@epa.gov . The last day to pre-register to speak at the hearing will be June 24, 2026. Prior to the hearing, the EPA will post a general agenda that will list pre-registered speakers in approximate order at: https://www.epa.gov/&#8203;ground-level-ozone-pollution/&#8203;ozone-implementation-regulatory-actions . The EPA will make every effort to follow the schedule as closely as possible on the day of the hearing; however, please plan for the hearings to run either ahead of schedule or behind schedule. Each commenter will have approximately four minutes to provide oral testimony. The EPA recommends submitting the text of your oral testimony as written comments to the rulemaking docket. During the hearing, the EPA may ask clarifying questions but will not respond to comments made during oral testimonies. Written statements and supporting information submitted during the comment period will be considered with the same weight as oral testimony and supporting 