Title: Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records
Agency: Federal Trade Commission
Date: 2026-06-03
Document Number: 2026-11114
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The FTC is making technical revisions to one of the notices that it has published under the Privacy Act of 1974 to describe its systems of records. This action is intended to make the notice clearer, more accurate, and up-to-date.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Federal Trade Commission AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission (FTC). ACTION: Notice of modified systems of records. SUMMARY: The FTC is making technical revisions to one of the notices that it has published under the Privacy Act of 1974 to describe its systems of records. This action is intended to make the notice clearer, more accurate, and up-to-date. DATES: This notice shall become final and effective on June 3, 2026. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: G. Richard Gold, Attorney, Office of the General Counsel, FTC, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326-3355 or rgold@ftc.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: To inform the public, the FTC publishes in the Federal Register and posts on its website a &ldquo;system of records notice&rdquo; (SORN) for each system of records that the FTC currently maintains within the meaning of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a (&ldquo;Privacy Act&rdquo; or &ldquo;Act&rdquo;). See https://www.ftc.gov/&#8203;about-ftc/&#8203;foia/&#8203;foia-reading-rooms/&#8203;privacy-act-systems . The Privacy Act protects records about individuals in systems of records collected and maintained by Federal agencies. (A system is not a &ldquo;system of records&rdquo; under the Act unless the agency maintains and retrieves records in the system by the relevant individual's name or other personally assigned identifier.) Each Federal agency, including the FTC, must publish a SORN that describes the records maintained in each of its Privacy Act systems, including the categories of individuals that the records in the system are about, where and how the agency maintains these records, and how individuals can find out whether an agency system contains any records about them or request access to their records, if any. The FTC, for example, maintains 39 systems of records under the Act. Some of these systems contain records about the FTC's own employees, such as personnel and payroll files. Other FTC systems contain records about members of the public, such as public comments, consumer complaints, or phone numbers submitted to the FTC's Do Not Call Registry. Based on a periodic review of its SORNs, the FTC is publishing these additional technical revisions to the SORN for FTC-IV-1 (Consumer Information System&mdash;FTC) to ensure that this SORN remains clear, accurate, and up-to-date. This SORN covers consumer reports, complaints, and information requests received from consumers, as well as identity theft and TakeItDown complaints. [ 1 ] The Commission has updated the sections relating to the Purpose of the System, Categories of Records in the System, and Policies and Practices for Storage of Records. The FTC is not substantively adding or amending any routine uses of its Privacy Act system records. Accordingly, the FTC is not required to provide prior public comment or notice to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) or Congress for these technical amendments, which are final upon publication. See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(11) and 552a(r) ; OMB Circular A-108 (2016) (which reorganized the format and content for SORNs published by Federal agencies). The FTC is reprinting the entire text of this amended SORN for the public's benefit, to read as follows: * * * * * IV. Correspondence Systems of Records * * * * * SYSTEM NAME AND NUMBER: Consumer Information System-FTC (FTC-IV-1). SECURITY CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified. SYSTEM LOCATION: Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580. This system is operated off-site by a contractor. For other locations where records may be maintained or accessed, see Appendix III (Locations of FTC Buildings and Regional Offices), available on the FTC's website at https://www.ftc.gov/&#8203;about-ftc/&#8203;foia/&#8203;foia-reading-rooms/&#8203;privacy-act-systems and at 87 FR 57698 (Sept. 21, 2022). SYSTEM MANAGER(S): Assistant Director, Division of Consumer Response and Operations, ( printed page 33173) Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580, email: SORNS@ftc.gov . AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM: Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.; section 5 of the Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998 (ITADA), 18 U.S.C. 1028 note . PURPOSE(S) OF THE SYSTEM: To maintain records of complaints and inquiries from individual consumers; to track and respond to such communications ( e.g., providing information to consumers over the phone or fulfilling requests by consumers to be mailed copies of FTC publications); identify consumer problems and issues that may lead to law enforcement investigations, litigation, or other proceedings; to be used in and made part of the records of such proceedings, or to be referred to other persons, entities, or authorities, where appropriate, covered by other Privacy Act system of records notices; and to provide statistical data on the number and types of complaints or other communications received by the FTC. Also, to satisfy the requirement of the ITADA that the FTC compile and refer identity theft complaints to &ldquo;appropriate entities,&rdquo; and to provide useful information that may contribute to regulation and oversight of institutions and systems that play a role in or are affected by fraudulent business practices or identity theft. CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM: (1) Individual consumers who submit complaints to the FTC about identity theft, or the business practices of a c