Title: 365 Retail Markets and Cantaloupe; Analysis of Proposed Agreement Containing Consent Orders To Aid Public Comment
Agency: Federal Trade Commission
Date: 2026-05-07
Document Number: 2026-09021
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The consent agreement in this matter settles alleged violations of Federal law prohibiting unfair methods of competition. The attached Analysis of Proposed Agreement Containing Consent Orders to Aid Public Comment describes both the allegations in the complaint and the terms of the consent order--embodied in the consent agreement-- that would settle these allegations.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Federal Trade Commission [File No. 251 0100] AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement; request for comment. SUMMARY: The consent agreement in this matter settles alleged violations of Federal law prohibiting unfair methods of competition. The attached Analysis of Proposed Agreement Containing Consent Orders to Aid Public Comment describes both the allegations in the complaint and the terms of the consent order&mdash;embodied in the consent agreement&mdash;that would settle these allegations. DATES: Comments must be received on or before June 8, 2026. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may file comments online or on paper by following the instructions in the Request for Comment part of the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section below. Please write: &ldquo;365 Retail Markets and Cantaloupe; File No. 251 0100&rdquo; on your comment and file your comment online at https://www.regulations.gov by following the instructions on the web-based form. If you prefer to file your comment on paper, please mail your comment to the following address: Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Mail Stop H-144 (Annex K), Washington, DC 20580. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 46(f) , and FTC Rule 2.34, 16 CFR 2.34 , notice is hereby given that the above-captioned consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of 30 days. The following Analysis of Proposed Agreement Containing Consent Orders to Aid Public Comment describes the terms of the consent agreement and the allegations in the complaint. An electronic copy of the full text of the consent agreement package can be obtained from the FTC website at this web address: https://www.ftc.gov/&#8203;news-events/&#8203;commission-actions . The public is invited to submit comments on this document. For the Commission to consider your comment, we must receive it on or before June 8, 2026. Write &ldquo;365 Retail Markets and Cantaloupe; File No. 251 0100&rdquo; on your comment. Your comment&mdash;including your name and your State&mdash;will be placed on the public record of this proceeding, including, to the extent practicable, on the https://www.regulations.gov website. Because of the agency's heightened security screening, postal mail addressed to the Commission will be delayed. We strongly encourage you to submit your comments online through the https://www.regulations.gov website. If you prefer to file your comment on paper, write &ldquo;365 Retail Markets and Cantaloupe; File No. 251 0100&rdquo; on your comment and on the envelope, and mail your comment by overnight service to: Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Mail Stop H-144 (Annex K), Washington, DC 20580. Because your comment will be placed on the publicly accessible website at https://www.regulations.gov , you are solely responsible for making sure your comment does not include any sensitive or confidential information. In particular, your comment should not include sensitive personal information, such as your or anyone else's Social Security number; date of birth; driver's license number or other State identification number, or foreign country equivalent; passport number; financial account number; or credit or debit card number. You are also solely responsible for making sure your comment does not include sensitive health information, such as medical records or other individually identifiable health information. In addition, your comment should not include any &ldquo;trade secret or any commercial or financial information which . . . is privileged or confidential&rdquo;&mdash;as provided by section 6(f) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 46(f) , and FTC Rule 4.10(a)(2), 16 CFR 4.10(a)(2) &mdash;including competitively sensitive information such as costs, sales statistics, inventories, formulas, patterns, devices, manufacturing processes, or customer names. Comments containing material for which confidential treatment is requested must be filed in paper form, must be clearly labeled &ldquo;Confidential,&rdquo; and must comply with FTC Rule 4.9(c). In particular, the written request for confidential treatment that accompanies ( printed page 24868) the comment must include the factual and legal basis for the request and must identify the specific portions of the comment to be withheld from the public record. See FTC Rule 4.9(c). Your comment will be kept confidential only if the General Counsel grants your request in accordance with the law and the public interest. Once your comment has been posted on https://www.regulations.gov &mdash;as legally required by FTC Rule 4.9(b)&mdash;we cannot redact or remove your comment from that website, unless you submit a confidentiality request that meets the requirements for such treatment under FTC Rule 4.9(c), and the General Counsel grants that request. Visit the FTC website at https://www.ftc.gov to read this document and the news release describing this matter. The FTC Act and other laws the Commission administers permit the collection of public comments to consider and use in this proceeding, as appropriate. The Commission will consider all timely and responsive public comments it receives on or before June 8, 2026. For information on the Commission's privacy policy, incl