Title: Agency Information Collection Activities; Proposed Collection; Comment Request; Extension
Agency: Federal Trade Commission
Date: 2026-05-05
Document Number: 2026-08685
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC or Commission) is seeking public comment on its proposal to extend for an additional three years the current Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) clearance to participate in the Office of Management and Budget program "Generic Clearance for the Collection of Qualitative Feedback on Service Delivery." The current clearance expires on August 30, 2026.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Federal Trade Commission AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Federal Trade Commission (FTC or Commission) is seeking public comment on its proposal to extend for an additional three years the current Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) clearance to participate in the Office of Management and Budget program &ldquo;Generic Clearance for the Collection of Qualitative Feedback on Service Delivery.&rdquo; The current clearance expires on August 30, 2026. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 6, 2026. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may file a comment online or on paper, by following the instructions in the Request for Comment part of the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section below. Write &ldquo;Generic Clearance for Service Delivery; Paperwork Reduction Act Comment&rdquo; on your comment, and file your comment online at https://www.regulations.gov by following the instructions on the web-based form. If you prefer to file your comment on paper, mail your comment to the following address: Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Mail Stop H-144 (Annex E), Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Drew Johnson, Division of Consumer and Business Education, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326-2354; ajohnson@ftc.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title of Collection: Generic Clearance for the Collection of Qualitative Feedback on Agency Service Delivery. OMB Control Number: 3084-0159. Current Actions: Extension of approval for a collection of information. Affected Public: Individuals and Households, Businesses and Organizations, State, Local or Tribal Government. Estimated Number of Annual Respondents: 7,660. Estimated Total Annual Burden Hours: 1,142. Abstract: The FTC seeks renewed Office of Management and Budget approval of its generic clearance to collect qualitative feedback on service delivery ( i.e., the products and services that the FTC provides to help ( printed page 24235) consumers and businesses understand their rights and responsibilities, including websites, blogs, videos, print publications, and other content). &ldquo;Qualitative feedback&rdquo; denotes information that provides useful insight about public perceptions and opinions, but does not include statistical surveys that yield quantitative results that can be generalized to the population of study. The solicitation of feedback on service delivery will target areas such as timeliness, appropriateness, accuracy of information, courtesy, efficiency of service delivery, and resolution of issues with service delivery. The FTC will collect, analyze, and interpret information it gathers through this generic clearance program to identify strengths and weaknesses of current services and make improvements in service delivery based on feedback. This generic clearance for qualitative information will not be used for quantitative information collections that are designed to yield reliably actionable results, such as monitoring trends over time or documenting program performance. The types of collections that the proposed generic clearance covers include, but are not limited to: Customer comment cards/complaint forms; Small discussion groups; Focus groups of customers, potential customers, delivery partners, or other stakeholders; Cognitive laboratory studies, such as those used to refine questions or assess usability of a website; Qualitative customer satisfaction surveys ( e.g., post-transaction surveys; opt-out web surveys); In-person observation testing ( e.g., website or software usability tests). An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. As required by section 3506(c)(2)(A) of the PRA, 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(A) , the FTC is providing this opportunity for public comment before requesting that OMB extend the existing clearance for the information collection requirements contained in the Generic Clearance. Request for Comments Pursuant to Section 3506(c)(2)(A) of the PRA, the FTC invites comments on: (1) whether the information collection requirements are necessary, including whether the information will be practically useful; (2) the accuracy of our burden estimates, including whether the methodology and assumptions used are valid; (3) ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information. For the FTC to consider a comment, we must receive it on or before July 6, 2026. Your comment, including your name and your state, will be placed on the public record of this proceeding, including the https://www.regulations.gov website. You can file a comment online or on paper. Due to heightened security screening, postal mail addressed to the Commission will be subject to delay. We encourage you to submit your comments online through the https://www.regulations.gov website. If you file your comment on paper, write &ldquo;Generic Clearance for Service Delivery; Paperwork Reduction Act Comment&rdquo; on your comment and on the envelope, and mail it to the following address: Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Mail Stop H-144 (Annex E), Washington, DC 20580. Because your comment will become publicly available at https://www.regulations.gov , yo