Title: Agency Information Collection Activities; Proposed Collection; Comment Request; Extension
Agency: Federal Trade Commission
Date: 2026-04-17
Document Number: 2026-07538
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 ("PRA"), the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC" or "Commission") is seeking public comment on its proposal to extend for an additional three years the Office of Management and Budget ("OMB") clearance for information collection requirements in its Informal Dispute Settlement Procedures Rule ("the Dispute Settlement Rule" or "Rule"). That clearance expires on July 31, 2026.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Federal Trade Commission AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (&ldquo;PRA&rdquo;), the Federal Trade Commission (&ldquo;FTC&rdquo; or &ldquo;Commission&rdquo;) is seeking public comment on its proposal to extend for an additional three years the Office of Management and Budget (&ldquo;OMB&rdquo;) clearance for information collection requirements in its Informal Dispute Settlement Procedures Rule (&ldquo;the Dispute Settlement Rule&rdquo; or &ldquo;Rule&rdquo;). That clearance expires on July 31, 2026. DATES: Comments must be filed by June 16, 2026. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may file a comment online or on paper, by following the instructions in the Request for Comment part of the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section below. Write &ldquo;Dispute Settlement Rule; PRA Comment: FTC File No. P044403&rdquo; on your comment, and file your comment online at https://www.regulations.gov by following the instructions on the web-based form. If you prefer to file your comment on paper, mail your comment to the following address: Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Mail Stop H-144 (Annex E), Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sung W. Kim, Attorney, Division of Marketing Practices, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326-2211; skim6@ftc.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title: Informal Dispute Settlement Procedures Rule (the Dispute Settlement Rule or the Rule), 16 CFR part 703 . OMB Control Number: 3084-0113. Likely Respondents: Warrantors that Use an IDSM (Automobile Manufacturers) and Informal Dispute Settlement Mechanisms. Estimated Annual Burden Hours: 11,738 (derived from 7,843 recordkeeping hours in addition to 2,614 reporting hours and 1,281 disclosure hours). Estimated Annual Labor Costs: $339,496. Estimated Annual Capital or Other Non-Labor Costs: $425,987. ( printed page 20656) Abstract: The Dispute Settlement Rule is one of three rules&thinsp; [ 1 ] that the FTC implemented pursuant to requirements of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301 et seq. (&ldquo;Warranty Act&rdquo; or &ldquo;Act&rdquo;). [ 2 ] The Dispute Settlement Rule, 16 CFR part 703 , specifies the minimum standards that must be met by any informal dispute settlement mechanism (&ldquo;IDSM&rdquo;) incorporated into a written consumer product warranty and that the consumer is required to use before pursuing legal remedies under the Act in court (known as the &ldquo;prior resort requirement&rdquo;). [ 3 ] The Dispute Settlement Rule standards for IDSMs include requirements concerning the mechanism's structure ( e.g., funding, staffing, and neutrality), the qualifications of staff or decision makers, the mechanism's procedures for resolving disputes ( e.g., notification, investigation, time limits for decisions, and follow-up), recordkeeping, and annual audits. The Rule requires that IDSMs establish written operating procedures and provide copies of those procedures upon request. As required by section 3506(c)(2)(A) of the PRA, 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(A) , the FTC is providing this opportunity for public comment before requesting that OMB extend the existing clearance for the information collection requirements associated with the Dispute Settlement Rule. Burden Statement The primary burden from the Dispute Settlement Rule comes from the recordkeeping requirements that apply to IDSMs that are incorporated into a consumer product warranty through a prior resort clause. Currently, there are two IDSMs operating under the Rule: (1) the BBB AUTO LINE, and (2) the National Center for Dispute Settlement (&ldquo;NCDS&rdquo;). Although the Rule's information collection requirements have not changed since 2023, staff has adjusted its previous estimates slightly upward for its 2026 calculations because the two IDSMs indicate that, on average, more disputes have been handled since the previous submission to OMB (12,420 disputes/year projected in 2023; 15,685 disputes/year projected in 2026). The calculations underlying staff's new estimates follow. Recordkeeping: The Rule requires IDSMs to maintain records of each consumer warranty dispute. Both the BBB AUTO LINE and NCDS report the number of disputes closed each year. Staff is using those numbers to project what will happen over the next three years of OMB clearance for the Rule. The BBB AUTO LINE handles an average of 11,061 disputes each year. [ 4 ] NCDS handles an average of 4,624 disputes each year. [ 5 ] Based on these figures, staff estimates that the average number of IDSM disputes covered by the Rule is approximately 15,685. Case files must include information such as the consumer's contact information, the make and model of the product at issue, all letters or other correspondence submitted by the consumer or warrantor, and all evidence collected to resolve the dispute. Because maintaining individual case records is a necessary function for any IDSM, much of the burden would be incurred in the ordinary course of business. Nonetheless, staff estimates that maintaining individual case files imposes an additional burden of 30 minutes per case. Accordingly, the total annual recordkeeping burden is approximately 7,843 hours ((15,685 disputes x 30 minutes of burden/dispute)/60 minutes/hour). Reporting: The Rule requires IDSMs to update indexes, complete semiannual statistical sum