Title: Equal Credit Opportunity (Regulation B); Special Purpose Credit Programs; Rescission
Agency: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Date: 2026-06-17
Document Number: 2026-12149
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) is rescinding an advisory opinion issued in December 2020 regarding Regulation B, which implements the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), as it applies to certain aspects of special purpose credit programs designed and implemented by for-profit organizations to meet special social needs.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 12 CFR Part 1002 AGENCY: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. ACTION: Advisory opinion; rescission. SUMMARY: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) is rescinding an advisory opinion issued in December 2020 regarding Regulation B, which implements the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), as it applies to certain aspects of special purpose credit programs designed and implemented by for-profit organizations to meet special social needs. DATES: The advisory opinion is rescinded on June 17, 2026. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dave Gettler, Paralegal Specialist, Office of Regulations, at 202-435-7700 or https://reginquiries.consumerfinance.gov/&#8203; . If you require this document in an alternative electronic format, please contact CFPB_Accessibility@cfpb.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) is charged with administering the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA or the Act). [ 1 ] ECOA prohibits discrimination by a creditor in any aspect of a credit transaction, on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, an applicant's receipt of public assistance, or the good faith exercise of an applicant's rights under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. [ 2 ] At the same time, ECOA also states that it is not a violation of the Act for a creditor to refuse to extend credit offered pursuant to any special purpose credit program (SPCP) offered by a profit-making organization to meet special social needs which meets standards prescribed in regulations by the Bureau if such refusal is required by or made pursuant to such program. [ 3 ] On December 21, 2020, the Bureau issued an advisory opinion entitled &ldquo;Equal Credit Opportunity (Regulation B); Special Purpose Credit Programs&rdquo; (the advisory opinion) to address regulatory uncertainty regarding Regulation B, which implements ECOA, as it applies to certain aspects of SPCPs designed and implemented by for-profit organizations to meet special social needs. [ 4 ] The advisory opinion purported to address regulatory uncertainty regarding Regulation B as it applies to certain aspects of SPCPs designed and implemented by for-profit organizations to meet special social needs. Specifically, the advisory opinion clarified the content that a for-profit organization must include in a written plan that establishes and administers an SPCP under Regulation B. In addition, the advisory opinion clarified the type of research and data that may be appropriate to inform a for-profit organization's determination that an SPCP is needed to benefit a certain class of persons. In April 2026, the Bureau issued a final rule amending provisions related to, inter alia, SPCPs under Regulation B. [ 5 ] The advisory opinion, however, contains statements that conflict with these recent amendments to Regulation B. As one example, the advisory opinion states that all program participants in an SPCP offered or participated in by a for-profit organization may be required &ldquo;to share one or more common characteristics (for example, race, national origin, or sex )&rdquo;;&thinsp; [ 6 ] the April 2026 final rule, however, prohibits any SPCP offered or participated in by a for-profit organization from using the common characteristic of race, color, national origin, or sex, or any combination thereof, as a factor in determining eligibility for the program. In addition, the advisory opinion addresses SPCP provisions under Regulation B that have since been amended, rendering those discussions out-of-date or, at best, incomplete. The Bureau now hereby rescinds the advisory opinion. This rescission is intended to avoid any confusion about the appropriate standards and related conditions for SPCPs offered or participated in by for-profit organizations. I. ECOA and Regulation B ECOA makes it unlawful for any creditor to discriminate against any applicant, with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction, on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, an applicant's receipt of public assistance, or the good faith exercise of an applicant's rights under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. [ 7 ] At the same time, ECOA also states that it is not a violation of the Act for a creditor to refuse to extend credit offered pursuant to &ldquo;any [SPCP] offered by a profit-making organization to meet special social needs which meets standards prescribed in regulations by the Bureau &rdquo; if such refusal is required by or made pursuant to such program. [ 8 ] ECOA also authorizes the Bureau to write regulations to carry out ECOA's purposes. [ 9 ] In April 2026, the Bureau exercised these authorities by revising the standards for SPCPs under Regulation B to align them with ECOA, including its express statutory purpose, and to prevent unlawful discrimination. Specifically, the Bureau determined that any SPCP that bases eligibility on protected class membership inherently discriminates against ineligible individuals in violation of ECOA, unless the SPCP's use of the otherwise prohibited basis is necessary to overcome a demonstrated inability to access credit that is specifically based on those same characteristics. Finding no evidence (submitted by commenters or otherwise) that SPCPs based on race, color, national origin, or sex remain ( printed page 36519) necessary to serve the narrow original purpose of ECOA's SPCP provisions, the Bureau determi