Title: Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records
Agency: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Date: 2026-05-20
Document Number: 2026-10113
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) proposes to modify a current Privacy Act System of Records Notice (SORN) titled "CFPB.009- Employee Administrative Records System." This modification introduces a new routine use to permit the disclosure of records to the news media and the public under specific circumstances. The new routine use adopts the same standard applied under the Freedom of Information Act for determining whether information relating to personal privacy interests must be released to the public. In addition, the new routine use is consistent with routine uses adopted by other Federal agencies for systems of records concerning employee personnel files. This SORN enables the CFPB to manage and administer human capital functions related to current and former Bureau employees, volunteers, detailees, applicants, and persons who work at the Bureau, and their named dependents and/or beneficiaries, their named emergency contacts, and individuals who have been extended offers of employment.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau [Docket No: CFPB-2026-0016] AGENCY: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. ACTION: Notice of a modified system of records. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) proposes to modify a current Privacy Act System of Records Notice (SORN) titled &ldquo;CFPB.009-Employee Administrative Records System.&rdquo; This modification introduces a new routine use to permit the disclosure of records to the news media and the public under specific circumstances. The new routine use adopts the same standard applied under the Freedom of Information Act for determining whether information relating to personal privacy interests must be released to the public. In addition, the new routine use is consistent with routine uses adopted by other Federal agencies for systems of records concerning employee personnel files. This SORN enables the CFPB to manage and administer human capital functions related to current and former Bureau employees, volunteers, detailees, applicants, and persons who work at the Bureau, and their named dependents and/or beneficiaries, their named emergency contacts, and individuals who have been extended offers of employment. DATES: Comments must be received no later than June 22, 2026. The modified system of records will be effective June 22, 2026 unless the comments received result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: You may submit comments, identified by the title and docket number ( see above Docket No. CFPB-2026-0016), by any of the following methods: Federal eRulemaking Portal: http://www.regulations.gov . Follow the instructions for submitting comments. A brief summary of this document will be available at https://www.regulations.gov/&#8203;docket/&#8203;CFPB-2026-0016 . Email: privacy@cfpb.gov . Include Docket No. CFPB-2026-0016 in the subject line of the email. Mail/Hand Delivery/Courier: Kathryn Fong, Chief Privacy Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552, (202) 435-7058. Because paper mail in the Washington, DC area and at CFPB is subject to delay, commenters are encouraged to submit comments electronically. All submissions must include the agency name and docket number for this notice. In general, all comments received will be posted without change to http://www.regulations.gov . All comments, including attachments and other supporting materials, will become part of the public record and subject to public disclosure. You should submit only information that you wish to make available publicly. Sensitive personal information, such as account numbers or Social Security numbers, should not be included. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kathryn Fong, Chief Privacy Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC ( printed page 29465) 20552; (202) 435-7058. If you require this document in an alternative electronic format, please contact CFPB_Accessibility@cfpb.gov . Please do not submit comments to this email box. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a , the CFPB is modifying a system of records titled, &ldquo;CFPB.009-Employee Administrative Records System.&rdquo; This modified system of records introduces a new routine use to enable the disclosure of records pertaining to individuals covered by this system to the news media and public under certain limited circumstances. Specifically, it would allow such disclosures when there is a legitimate public interest in the information sought ( e.g., when the disclosure is necessary to preserve confidence in the integrity of the CFPB, or when disclosure is necessary to demonstrate accountability of the individuals covered by this system) and the disclosure of the information would not constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. The CFPB is also making non-substantive revisions to the system of records notice to align with the Office of Management and Budget's template in Circular A-108, &ldquo;Federal Agency Responsibilities for Review, Reporting, and Publication under the Privacy Act,&rdquo; appendix II (Dec. 2016). The report of the revised system of records has been submitted to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the U.S. House of Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs of the U.S. Senate, and the Office of Management and Budget, pursuant to Circular A-108, &ldquo;Federal Agency Responsibilities for Review, Reporting, and Publication under the Privacy Act&rdquo; (Dec. 2016) and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a(r) . The modified SORN titled, &ldquo;CFPB.009-Employee Administrative Records System&rdquo; is published in its entirety below. SYSTEM NAME AND NUMBER: CFPB.009&mdash;Employee Administrative Records System. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified. SYSTEM LOCATION: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. SYSTEM MANAGER(S): Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Chief Operating Officer, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM: 12 U.S.C. 5492-93 , 5511 ; 31 U.S.C. 3721 ; 42 U.S.C. 2000e-16 ; 42 U.S.C. 1981 note . PURPOSE(S) OF THE SYSTEM: The purpose of the system is to enable the Bureau to manage and administer human capital functions, including personnel actions, payroll, human resources, time and attendance, leave, insurance, tax, retirement and other employee 