Title: Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B)
Agency: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Date: 2026-04-22
Document Number: 2026-07804
Topics: Banks, banking, Civil rights, Consumer protection, Credit, Credit unions, Marital status discrimination, Penalties, Religious discrimination, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, Sex discrimination
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau or CFPB) is issuing a final rule that amends provisions related to disparate impact, discouragement of applicants or prospective applicants, and special purpose credit programs under Regulation B, the regulation implementing the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA or Act). The amendments facilitate compliance with ECOA by clarifying the obligations imposed by the statute.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 12 CFR Part 1002 [Docket No. CFPB-2025-0039] RIN 3170-AB54 ( printed page 21620) AGENCY: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau or CFPB) is issuing a final rule that amends provisions related to disparate impact, discouragement of applicants or prospective applicants, and special purpose credit programs under Regulation B, the regulation implementing the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA or Act). The amendments facilitate compliance with ECOA by clarifying the obligations imposed by the statute. DATES: This final rule is effective July 21, 2026. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dave Gettler, Paralegal Specialist, Office of Regulations, at 202-435-7700 or https://reginquiries.consumerfinance.gov/&#8203; . If you require this document in an alternative electronic format, please contact CFPB_Accessibility@cfpb.gov . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Summary Pursuant to its authority under ECOA, 15 U.S.C. 1691b(a) , and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), 12 U.S.C. 5512(b) , the Bureau is amending provisions in Regulation B, 12 CFR part 1002 , pertaining to: whether disparate impact is cognizable under the Act; under what circumstances a creditor may be deemed to be discouraging an applicant or prospective applicant; and under what conditions a creditor may offer special purpose credit programs (SPCPs). In 2020, the Bureau issued a Request for Information on ECOA and Regulation B (RFI). [ 1 ] The RFI solicited information about disparate impact, prospective applicants, and SPCPs, among other topics. The Bureau reviewed the comments submitted in response to the RFI and obtained other information in the course of carrying out its statutory responsibilities. In November 2025, the Bureau issued a notice of proposed rulemaking amending Regulation B (proposal or proposed rule). The Bureau has considered the comments submitted in response to the proposed rule. [ 2 ] The Bureau now finalizes the rule as proposed. The Bureau's final rule provides that ECOA does not authorize disparate-impact liability (effects test), further defines discouragement, and adds prohibitions and conditions for SPCPs. II. Background A. Introduction Congress enacted ECOA in 1974 (1974 Act)&thinsp; [ 3 ] &ldquo;to insure that the various financial institutions and other firms engaged in the extensions of credit exercise their responsibility to make credit available with fairness, impartiality, and without discrimination on the basis of sex or marital status.&rdquo; To that end, section 701(a) of ECOA made it &ldquo;unlawful for any creditor to discriminate against any applicant on the basis of sex or marital status with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction.&rdquo; The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) promulgated regulations implementing ECOA. In 1976, Congress reenacted ECOA in its entirety, amending ECOA to add additional categories of prohibited discrimination (1976 Act). [ 4 ] Since 1976, ECOA makes it unlawful for any creditor to discriminate against any applicant, with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction (1) on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or marital status, or age (provided the applicant has the capacity to contract); (2) because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or (3) because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under [the Consumer Credit Protection Act] (prohibited basis). [ 5 ] The Board, which at the time had exclusive rulemaking authority under ECOA, promulgated regulations, after notice-and-comment, to implement the 1976 Act. In 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act transferred responsibility for ECOA from the Board to the Bureau. [ 6 ] It granted primary authority to the Bureau to supervise and enforce compliance with ECOA and Regulation B for entities within the Bureau's jurisdiction and to issue regulations and guidance to implement and interpret ECOA. [ 7 ] On December 21, 2011, the Bureau established a new Regulation B, 12 CFR part 1002 , that substantially duplicated the Board's Regulation B, 12 CFR part 202 , making only certain non-substantive, technical, formatting, and stylistic changes. [ 8 ] Under the Dodd-Frank Act, it is the Bureau's responsibility to ensure that outdated, unnecessary, or unduly burdensome regulations over which the Bureau has authority are regularly identified and addressed, [ 9 ] and to correctly interpret ECOA. In 2020, the Bureau published an RFI seeking comments and information to identify opportunities to prevent credit discrimination, encourage responsible innovation, promote fair, equitable, and non-discriminatory access to credit, address potential regulatory uncertainty, and develop viable solutions to regulatory compliance challenges under ECOA and Regulation B. [ 10 ] The RFI requested information related to disparate impact, prospective applicants, and SPCPs, among other issues. In response to the RFI, the Bureau received and reviewed over 35 comment letters. In addition, the Bureau has obtained pertinent information in the course of carrying out its supervisory and enforcement responsibilities. In 2025, the President issued several Executive Orders (E.O.s) relevant to the Bureau's administration of ECOA. E.O. 14173 , entitled &ldquo;Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity,&rdquo;