Title: Agency Information Collection Activities: Comment Request
Agency: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Date: 2026-03-30
Document Number: 2026-06100
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) requests the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB's) reinstatement of an information collection titled "Prohibition on Inclusion of Adverse Information in Consumer Reporting in Cases of Human Trafficking (Regulation V)" approved under OMB Control Number 3170-0002.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau [Docket No. CFPB-2026-0011] AGENCY: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. ACTION: Notice and request for comment. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) requests the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB's) reinstatement of an information collection titled &ldquo;Prohibition on Inclusion of Adverse Information in Consumer Reporting in Cases of Human Trafficking (Regulation V)&rdquo; approved under OMB Control Number 3170-0002. DATES: Written comments are encouraged and must be received on or before April 29, 2026 to be assured of consideration. ADDRESSES: Written comments and recommendations for the proposed information collection should be sent within 30 days of publication of this notice to www.reginfo.gov/&#8203;public/&#8203;do/&#8203;PRAMain . Find this particular information collection by selecting &ldquo;Currently under 30-day Review&mdash;Open for Public Comments&rdquo; or by using the search function. In general, all comments received will become public records, including any personal information provided. Sensitive personal information, such as account numbers or Social Security numbers, should not be included. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for additional information should be directed to Anthony May, ( printed page 15605) Paperwork Reduction Act Officer, at (202) 435-7278, or email: CFPB_PRA@cfpb.gov . If you require this document in an alternative electronic format, please contact CFPB_Accessibility@cfpb.gov . Please do not submit comments to these email boxes. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title of Collection: Prohibition on Inclusion of Adverse Information in Consumer Reporting in Cases of Human Trafficking (Regulation V). OMB Control Number: 3170-0002. Type of Review: Reinstatement of an information collection. Affected Public: Private sector: businesses or other for-profits. Estimated Number of Respondents: 779,023. Estimated Total Annual Burden Hours: 6,286,665. Abstract: The consumer disclosures included in Regulation V are designed to alert consumers that a financial institution furnished negative information about them to a consumer reporting agency, that they have a right to opt out of receiving marketing materials and credit or insurance offers, that their credit report was used in setting the material terms of credit that may be less favorable than the terms offered to consumers with better credit histories, that they maintain certain rights with respect to a theft of their identity that they reported to a consumer reporting agency, that they maintain rights with respect to knowing what is in their consumer reporting agency file, that they can request a free credit report, and that they can report a theft of their identity to the Bureau. Consumers then can use the information provided to consider how and when to check and use their credit reports. It also establishes a method for a victim of trafficking to submit documentation to consumer reporting agencies, including information identifying any adverse item of information about the consumer that resulted from certain types of human trafficking, and prohibit the consumer reporting agencies from furnishing a consumer report containing the adverse item(s) of information. Request for Comments: The CFPB published a 60-day Federal Register notice on December 9, 2025 ( 90 FR 57036 ), under Docket Number: CFPB-2025-0047. The CFPB is publishing this notice and soliciting comments on: (a) Whether the collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the CFPB, including whether the information will have practical utility; (b) The accuracy of the CFPB's estimate of the burden of the collection of information, including the validity of the methods and the assumptions used; (c) Ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (d) Ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on respondents, including through the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology. Comments submitted in response to this notice will be reviewed by OMB as part of its review of this request. All comments will become a matter of public record. Anthony May, Paperwork Reduction Act Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. [ FR Doc. 2026-06100 Filed 3-27-26; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810-AM-P