Title: Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B)
Agency: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Date: 2026-02-25
Document Number: C1-2025-19864
Topics: Banks, banking, Civil rights, Consumer protection, Credit, Credit unions, Marital status discrimination, Penalties, Religious discrimination, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, Sex discrimination
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
No abstract available.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 12 CFR Part 1002 [Docket No. CFPB-2025-0039] RIN 3170-AB54 Correction In proposed rule document 2025-19864, appearing on pages 50901-50923 in the issue of Thursday, November 13, 2025, make the following correction to conform with the rule document as it was submitted by the Bureau on November 7, 2025: The regulatory text beginning on page 50920, in the third column, in the 3rd line, should read as follows: List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 1002 Banks Banking Civil rights Consumer protection Credit Credit unions Marital status discrimination National banks Penalties Religious discrimination Reporting and recordkeeping requirements Savings associations Sex discrimination Authority and Issuance For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Bureau proposes to amend Regulation B, 12 CFR part 1002 , as set forth below: PART 1002&mdash;EQUAL CREDIT OPPORTUNITY ACT (REGULATION B) &#9642; 1. The authority citation for part 1002 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 5512 , 5581 ; 15 U.S.C. 1691b . Subpart B is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 1691c-2 . SUBPART A&mdash;GENERAL &#9642; 2. Amend &sect;&thinsp;1002.4 by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: &sect;&thinsp;1002.4 General rules. * * * * * (b) Discouragement. A creditor shall not make any oral or written statement, in advertising or otherwise, directed at applicants or prospective applicants that the creditor knows or should know would cause a reasonable person to believe that the creditor would deny, or would grant on less favorable terms, a credit application by the applicant or prospective applicant because of the applicant or prospective applicant's prohibited basis characteristic(s). For purposes of this paragraph (b), oral or written statements are spoken or written words, or visual images such as symbols, photographs, or videos. * * * * * &#9642; 3. Amend &sect;&thinsp;1002.6 by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: &sect;&thinsp;1002.6 Rules concerning evaluation of applications. (a) General rule concerning use of information. Except as otherwise provided in the Act and this part, a creditor may consider any information obtained, so long as the information is not used to discriminate against an applicant on a prohibited basis. The Act does not provide that the &ldquo;effects test&rdquo; applies for determining whether there is discrimination in violation of the Act. * * * * * &#9642; 4. In &sect;&thinsp;1002.8, revise paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii), the heading of paragraph (b), and paragraphs (b)(2) and (c), and add paragraphs (b)(3) and (4), to read as follows: &sect;&thinsp;1002.8 Special purpose credit programs. (a) * * * (3) * * * (i) * * * (A) Identifies the class of persons that the program is designed to benefit; (B) Sets forth the procedures and standards for extending credit pursuant to the program; (C) Provides evidence of the need for the program; (D) Explains why, under the organization's standards of creditworthiness, the class of persons would not receive such credit in the absence of the program; and (E) When the persons in the class are required to share one or more common characteristics that would otherwise be a prohibited basis, explains why meeting the special social needs addressed by the program: (1) Necessitates that its participants share the specific common characteristics that would otherwise be a prohibited basis; and (2) Cannot be accomplished through a program that does not use otherwise prohibited bases as participant eligibility criteria; and (ii) The program is established and administered to extend credit to a class of persons who, under the organization's standards of creditworthiness, would not receive such credit. (b) Controlling provisions&mdash; * * * * * (2) Common characteristics. A program described in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section qualifies as a special purpose credit program only if it was established and is administered so as not to discriminate against an applicant on any prohibited basis; however, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, all program participants may be required to share one or more common characteristics that would otherwise be a prohibited basis so long as the program was not established and is not administered with the purpose of evading the requirements of the Act or this part. (3) Prohibited common characteristics. A special purpose credit program described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall not use the race, color, national origin, or sex, or any combination thereof, of the applicant, as a common characteristic or factor in determining eligibility for the program. (4) Otherwise prohibited bases in for-profit programs. Subject to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a special purpose credit program described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may require its participants to share one or more common characteristics that would otherwise be a prohibited basis only if the for-profit organization provides evidence for each participant who receives credit through the program that in the absence of the program the participant would not receive such credit as a result of those specific characteristics. (c) Special rule concerning requests and use of information. If participants in a special purpose credit program described in paragraph (a) of this section are required to possess one or more common characteristics that would otherwise be a prohibited basis and if the program otherwise 