Title: Agency Information Collection Activities: Comment Request
Agency: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Date: 2026-02-24
Document Number: 2026-03621
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) requests the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB's) extension of an information collection titled "Registration of Mortgage Loan Originators (Regulation G)" approved under OMB Control Number 3170- 0005.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau [Docket No. CFPB-2026-0008] AGENCY: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. ACTION: Notice and request for comment. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) requests the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB's) extension of an ( printed page 8844) information collection titled &ldquo;Registration of Mortgage Loan Originators (Regulation G)&rdquo; approved under OMB Control Number 3170-0005. DATES: Written comments are encouraged and must be received on or before March 26, 2026 to be assured of consideration. ADDRESSES: Written comments and recommendations for the proposed information collection should be sent within 30 days of publication of this notice to www.reginfo.gov/&#8203;public/&#8203;do/&#8203;PRAMain . Find this particular information collection by selecting &ldquo;Currently under 30-day Review&mdash;Open for Public Comments&rdquo; or by using the search function. In general, all comments received will become public records, including any personal information provided. Sensitive personal information, such as account numbers or Social Security numbers, should not be included. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for additional information should be directed to Anthony May, Paperwork Reduction Act Officer, at (202) 435-7278, or email: CFPB_PRA@cfpb.gov . If you require this document in an alternative electronic format, please contact CFPB_Accessibility@cfpb.gov . Please do not submit comments to these email boxes. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title of Collection: Registration of Mortgage Loan Originators (Regulation G). OMB Control Number: 3170-0005. Type of Review: Extension of a currently approved information collection. Affected Public: Private sector: businesses or other for-profits. Estimated Number of Respondents: 261,638. Estimated Total Annual Burden Hours: 249,628. Abstract: Regulation G ( 12 CFR part 1007 et seq. ) implements the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the S.A.F.E. Act, 12 U.S.C. 5101 et seq. ) which contains the Federal registration requirement with respect to any covered financial institutions and their employees who act as residential mortgage loan originators (MLOs). Regulation G requires covered institutions to register with the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry, to obtain a unique identifier, to maintain this registration, and to disclose to consumers the unique identifier. Regulation G also requires the covered financial institutions employing these MLOs to adopt and to follow written policies and procedures ensuring their employees comply with these requirements and disclose the unique identifiers of their MLOs. Request for Comments: The CFPB published a 60-day Federal Register notice on December 10, 2025 ( 90 FR 57185 ) under Docket Number: CFPB-2025-0050. The CFPB is publishing this notice and soliciting comments on: (a) Whether the collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the CFPB, including whether the information will have practical utility; (b) The accuracy of the CFPB's estimate of the burden of the collection of information, including the validity of the methods and the assumptions used; (c) Ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (d) Ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on respondents, including through the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology. Comments submitted in response to this notice will be reviewed by OMB as part of its review of this request. All comments will become a matter of public record. Anthony May, Paperwork Reduction Act Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. [ FR Doc. 2026-03621 Filed 2-23-26; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810-AM-P