Title: Agency Information Collection Activities: Comment Request
Agency: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Date: 2026-02-24
Document Number: 2026-03620
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) requests the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB's) extension of an information collection titled "Truth in Savings (Regulation DD)" approved under OMB Control Number 3170-0004.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau [Docket No. CFPB-2026-0009] AGENCY: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. ACTION: Notice and request for comment. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB or Bureau) requests the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB's) extension of an information collection titled &ldquo;Truth in Savings (Regulation DD)&rdquo; approved under OMB Control Number 3170-0004. DATES: Written comments are encouraged and must be received on or before March 26, 2026 to be assured of consideration. ADDRESSES: Written comments and recommendations for the proposed information collection should be sent within 30 days of publication of this notice to www.reginfo.gov/&#8203;public/&#8203;do/&#8203;PRAMain . Find this particular information collection by selecting &ldquo;Currently under 30-day Review&mdash;Open for Public Comments&rdquo; or by using the search function. In general, all comments received will become public records, including any personal information provided. Sensitive personal information, such as account numbers or Social Security numbers, should not be included. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for additional information should be directed to Anthony May, Paperwork Reduction Act Officer, at (202) 435-7278, or email: CFPB_PRA@cfpb.gov . If you require this document in an alternative electronic format, please contact CFPB_Accessibility@cfpb.gov . Please do not submit comments to these email boxes. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title of Collection: Truth in Savings (Regulation DD). OMB Control Number: 3170-0004. Type of Review: Extension of a currently approved information collection. Affected Public: Private sector: businesses or other for-profits. Estimated Number of Respondents: 171. Estimated Total Annual Burden Hours: 561,632. Abstract: The Truth in Savings Act (TISA), 12 U.S.C. 4301 et seq., was enacted to enhance economic stability, improve competition between depository institutions, and strengthen consumer ability to make informed decisions regarding deposit accounts by requiring uniformity in the disclosure of interest rates and fees. TISA assists consumers in comparing deposit accounts offered by depository institutions, principally through the disclosure of fees, the annual percentage yield, the interest rate, and other account terms. TISA and Regulation DD require depository institutions to disclose yields, fees, and other terms concerning deposit accounts to consumers at account opening, upon request, and when changes in terms occur. Depository institutions that provide periodic statements are required to include information about fees imposed, interest earned, and the annual percentage yield earned during those statement periods. TISA and Regulation DD mandate the methods by which institutions determine the account balance on which interest is calculated. They also contain rules about advertising deposit accounts and overdraft services. Regulation DD requires depository institutions subject to TISA to retain evidence of compliance with the regulation. These recordkeeping requirements ensure that ( printed page 8845) records that might contain evidence of violations of TISA remain available to Federal enforcement agencies, as well as to private litigants. Request for Comments: The CFPB published a 60-day Federal Register notice on December 10, 2025 ( 90 FR 57185 ) under Docket Number: CFPB-2025-0048. The CFPB is publishing this notice and soliciting comments on: (a) Whether the collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the CFPB, including whether the information will have practical utility; (b) The accuracy of the CFPB's estimate of the burden of the collection of information, including the validity of the methods and the assumptions used; (c) Ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (d) Ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on respondents, including through the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology. Comments submitted in response to this notice will be reviewed by OMB as part of its review of this request. All comments will become a matter of public record. Anthony May, Paperwork Reduction Act Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. [ FR Doc. 2026-03620 Filed 2-23-26; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810-AM-P