Title: Self-Regulatory Organizations; NYSE American LLC; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of a Proposed Rule Change To Modify the NYSE American Options Fee Schedule To Amend the Manual Billable Rebate Program and Firm Monthly Fee Cap
Agency: Securities and Exchange Commission
Date: 2026-06-18
Document Number: 2026-12261
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
No abstract available.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Securities and Exchange Commission [Release No. 34-105694; File No. SR-NYSEAMER-2026-48] June 15, 2026. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1)&thinsp; [ 1 ] of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&ldquo;Act&rdquo;)&thinsp; [ 2 ] and Rule 19b-4 thereunder, [ 3 ] notice is hereby given that, on June 1, 2026, NYSE American LLC (&ldquo;NYSE American&rdquo; or the &ldquo;Exchange&rdquo;) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &ldquo;Commission&rdquo;) the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to modify the NYSE American Options Fee Schedule (&ldquo;Fee Schedule&rdquo;) to amend the Manual Billable Rebate Program that is part of the Floor Broker Fixed Cost Prepayment Incentive Program (the &ldquo;FB Prepay Program&rdquo;) and to add a credit under the Firm Monthly Fee Cap. The Exchange proposes implementing the fee changes effective June 1, 2026. The proposed rule change is available on the Exchange's website at www.nyse.com and at the principal office of the Exchange. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of, and basis for, the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of those statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Exchange has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant parts of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Exchange proposes to modify the Fee Schedule to amend the Manual Billable Rebate Program. [ 4 ] Specifically, the Exchange proposes a non-substantive name change of the program to &ldquo;Manual Billable Program&rdquo; and modify the additional rebates available thereunder. In addition, the Exchange proposes to add a Floor Broker credit under the Firm Monthly Fee Cap. The Exchange proposes implementing the fee changes effective June 1, 2026. Manual Billable Program&thinsp; [ 5 ] The Manual Billable Program, which the Exchange proposes to change the name from the &ldquo;Manual Billable Rebate Program&rdquo; is available to participants as part of the FB Prepay Program, which is an incentive program that allows Floor Brokers that prepay certain of their annual Eligible Fixed Costs to be eligible for the Manual Billable Program. [ 6 ] Floor Brokers that participate in the FB Prepay Program are eligible for rebates through the Manual Billable Program payable monthly on transactions for which at least one side is subject to manual transaction fees on a monthly basis. Under the Manual Billable Program, participants qualify for rebates by achieving certain billable manual volume. The calculation of volume on which rebates earned through the Manual Billable Program would be paid is based on transactions including at least one side for which manual transaction fees are applicable and unless otherwise indicated excludes QCCs. Under the Program, Participating Floor Brokers are entitled to, among other things, additional rebates of: (i) $0.01 per manual billable side; and (ii) $0.01 per two billable side QCC contract, payable back to the first billable side if they exceed, by 2 million combined manual billable and QCC billable contracts, the execution of more than 5 million combined billable and QCC billable contracts by at least 100%. [ 7 ] The Exchange proposes to eliminate the two additional rebates and replace it with one additional rebate. Specifically, participants that execute combined manual billable and QCC billable contracts exceeding 5 million by at least 100% are eligible for an additional rebate of ($0.01) per two billable side QCC contract, payable back to the first billable side for participants. [ 8 ] In addition, participants eligible for this additional rebate will be eligible for a credit under the Firm Monthly Fee Cap of Section I.I (detailed below). Floor Broker Credit The Firm Monthly Fee Cap will aggregate the fees associated with Firm Manual transactions (including QCC transactions) and cap them at $250,000 ( printed page 36894) per month per Firm. Once a Firm has reached the Firm Monthly Fee Cap, an incremental service fee of $0.02 per contract for Firm Manual transactions will apply, including for the execution of a QCC order. Any fee or volume associated with a Strategy Execution described in Section I.J., ( e.g., reversal and conversion, box spread, short stock interest spread, merger spread and jelly roll) will not be counted toward the $250,000 cap. Royalty Fees will continue to be charged at the rates described in Section I. K., and do not count toward the $250,000 fee cap. [ 9 ] The Exchange now proposes to include a credit for Floor Brokers who have reached the Cap and are eligible for the additional rebate under the Manual Billable Program (detailed above). [ 10 ] Eligible Floor Brokers will earn a credit on volume associated with Strategy Executions at the rate achieved in the Manual Billable Program except that the lessor