Title: Self-Regulatory Organizations; Long-Term Stock Exchange, Inc.; Notice of Filing of a Proposed Rule Change To Amend its Rules Related to Market Makers
Agency: Securities and Exchange Commission
Date: 2026-06-18
Document Number: 2026-12260
Topics: 
Source: Federal Register

Abstract:
No abstract available.

Full Text (excerpt):
Document Headings Document headings vary by document type but may contain the following: the agency or agencies that issued and signed a document the number of the CFR title and the number of each part the document amends, proposes to amend, or is directly related to the agency docket number / agency internal file number the RIN which identifies each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions See the Document Drafting Handbook for more details. Securities and Exchange Commission [Release No. 34-105693; File No. SR-LTSE-2026-15] June 15, 2026. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 19(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&ldquo;Act&rdquo;), [ 1 ] and Rule 19b-4 thereunder, [ 2 ] notice is hereby given that on June 2, 2026, Long-Term Stock Exchange, Inc. (&ldquo;LTSE&rdquo; or &ldquo;Exchange&rdquo;) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&ldquo;Commission&rdquo;) the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange is filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&ldquo;Commission&rdquo;) a proposed rule change to amend its rules to: (1) add definitions for &ldquo;Market Maker&rdquo; and &ldquo;Market Maker Authorized Trader&rdquo; or &ldquo;MMAT&rdquo; to Rule 1.160; (2) amend and restate Rule 11.150 to establish a comprehensive Market Maker registration framework; (3) amend and restate Rule 11.151 to expand and reorganize Market Maker obligations and adopt an Assigned Market Maker (&ldquo;AMM&rdquo;) Program for Non-LTSE-Primary-Listed Securities; (4) adopt a new Rule 11.152 governing the obligations of Market Maker Authorized Traders; and (5) adopt a new Rule 11.153 governing the security-level registration of Market Makers, including voluntary and Exchange-initiated termination of such registration. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Exchange's website at https://longtermstockexchange.com/&#8203; ( printed page 36920) and at the principal office of the Exchange. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Exchange is proposing to amend its rules to establish a comprehensive market maker registration framework, formalize the registration and oversight of individuals who perform market making activities on behalf of Exchange members, and create a new AMM Program for Non-LTSE-Primary-Listed Securities traded on the Exchange. The proposed amendments are described in detail below. As described in each section, the proposed changes are in large part consistent with corresponding rules of Cboe BZX Exchange, Inc. (&ldquo;Cboe BZX&rdquo;), with certain differences reflecting LTSE's market structure and model. Proposed Amendments to Rule 1.160 (Definitions) The Exchange is proposing to add two new definitions to Rule 1.160, the Exchange's central definitions rule. These new definitions anchor the proposed market maker framework in the Exchange's definitions rule and are consistent with the approach taken by other national securities exchanges. First, the Exchange proposes to add the definition of &ldquo;Market Maker&rdquo; in new Rule 1.160(ww). The proposed definition provides that &ldquo;Market Maker&rdquo; means a Member that acts as a Market Maker pursuant to Chapter 11 of the LTSE Rules. The term currently appears throughout Chapter 11 without a formal definitional anchor in Rule 1.160. The proposed addition clarifies that Market Maker status is a distinct role conferred through Chapter 11 registration, separate from general Exchange membership. [ 3 ] Second, the Exchange proposes to add the definition of &ldquo;Market Maker Authorized Trader&rdquo; or &ldquo;MMAT&rdquo; in new Rule 1.160(xx). The proposed definition provides that &ldquo;MMAT&rdquo; means an authorized trader who performs market making activities pursuant to Chapter 11 on behalf of a Market Maker. This definition is new to the LTSE rulebook. It is consistent with the definition of &ldquo;Market Maker Authorized Trader&rdquo; in Cboe BZX Rule 1.5(m), which similarly defines the term as a person who is authorized to enter quotations in one or more securities on behalf of a registered Market Maker. [ 4 ] Both definitions anchor individual market making authorization to the firm-level market maker registration framework. The MMAT concept in the LTSE Rules is also an extension of the Exchange's existing Authorized Trader framework under Rule 11.140 and Rule 1.160(d), applied specifically to the market making context. The MMAT definition in proposed Rule 1.160(xx) anchors the comprehensive individual-level registration and oversight framework set forth in proposed Rule 11.152, discussed below. Proposed Amendments to Rule 11.150 (Registration as a Market Maker) The Exchange is proposing to delete the existing text of Rule 11.150 in its entirety and replace it with a comprehensive Market Maker registration framework consisting of five new provisions, as described below. [ 5 ] Proposed Rule 11.150(a) requires any applicant for registration as a Market Maker to file a written application on a form prescribed by 